An introductory article on Futures. Describes what a forward contract means along with a practical illustration of the concept. The article discusses the procedure for settling the forward contract. T .. The article starts by discussing the drawbacks of Forwards contracts and progress to discuss how a futures contract overcomes these drawbacks. Examples are quoted to make the concept clear.
 .. The article explains how a trader can employ futures contract to financially profit from his directional view on a stock or an
index. Practical examples are used to illustrate how the trade would evol .. This chapter discusses leverage, the central theme of futures trading in detail. The contract
between futures and spot market is discussed. The chapter also touches upon leverage calculation.
 .. This chapter gives you all the necessary information that you need to know before placing your first
futures trade. The chapter also throws light into why brokers and exchanges charge margins.
 .. This chapter gives you an overview of how to use a margin calculator. In addition the chapter also touches upon spread
trading such as calendar spreads.
 .. In continuation from the previous chapter this chapter discusses various product types such as NRML, MIS, Bracket Order, and Cover order and the margins applicable to these products. The chapter also  .. The chapter explains all that you need about shorting, be it futures or stocks with practical real life examples. Emphasis is also made on things you need to take care of when you short stocks or futu .. This chapter is a primer on trading Nifty Futures. All that you need to know about Nifty futures is discussed in this chapter including the impact cost, liquidity, and benefits of trading Nifty future .. This chapter is a primer on how future contracts are priced with respect to the spot prices. The chapter also discusses the concept of premium, discount, and the convergence of futures and spot price  .. This chapter gives a step by step instruction on how to hedge a portfolio of stocks with the help of a futures instrument. The
chapter also has a detailed description on beta and method to calculate t .. This chapter explores in details the concept of open interest and its relevance to futures trading. The chapter also includes a guide on how to interpret the change in open interest with respect to ch .. 13.1 – Overview Until recent times, trading in equity futures and options was cash settled in India. What this means is that upon expiry of the contract, buyers or sellers had to settle their po .. 
